Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this lecture we're going to be looking at file paths.
So when we pass a simple fun name like movies RTX T to the open function pipe it looks in the directory
where to find it's currently being executed is stored but this will not always be the case depending
on how you organize your work.
Sometimes the file you want to open may not be in the same directory as your program file.
For example what in your working folder where you say reprogrammed you might have a note or folder called
text files to store to text file and you're currently working with to get piped into open the files
from a directory ordered under one where your program is stored.
We need to provide a file path which tends to lock in a specific location on our system.
If we create a new folder called text files within our working folder we would use a relative path to
open a file with it around the file path tells it to look for a given location relative to the directory
where the current program is stored.
So what does this mean.
Well as you can see on the left hand side here I have my working directory called files and then I have
my movies dirty XTi I'm my movie reader which we worked with in the last lecture.
Now I have a new program here called five parts which is the exact same as the last lecture except renamed
also what in this folder files.
I have another folder called textfiles.
And went in there.
I have a copy of moviestar XTi.
And as you can see the copy I change James Cameron to Tony Stone and my name so we know we run it.
We're pulling in the right file.
So I go back into my file pads and I simply put it in t x t t x t
files forward slash and I call this file copy of moviestar XTi of movie 30 XTi.
There we go.
So the forward slash is relevant for Linux and OS X users in Windows.
It would be a backslash like that.
Let's run that and see if it works.
There we go.
It's jumped from a working directory which is files into our tax files directory and it's found copy
of moviestar XTi we can also use what are called absolute file paths these five parts to help Huyton
exactly where the file is on our computer regardless of where the program that's being executed is stored.
Absolute file parts are usually longer and well-defined parts.
So it's helpful to store them in a variable and then pass the variable to open.
I'm going to post this video now and go off and get the absolute file part from my copy of movies t
XTi.
OK welcome back.
So I've gone off and I've gotten the file path to my copies of movies don t s t.
So what we want to do here now is we want to save that file part in a variable.
So we're going to call that variable.
Something very obvious.
File Path equals paste in there we go.
Now what I want to do is I want to put in the name of my file so it's a copy of movies Dr. X take.
Perfect.
Now I want to take this out here.
And inside it I want to say the name of my variable file path.
There we go.
Let's run that and see what we get.
Perfect.
Works like a charm.
So now you can put it in the relative path to your files.
Doing so with a variable.
I hope all that made sense if you have any questions please let me know and I'll see you in the next
lecture.